you may have heard something called the
gap concept and online poker before but
were unsure of what it was well the gap
concept basically implies that we need a
stronger hand to call arrays with then
we need to actually raise with if we are
the first to act in a hand originally
described by this guy David's glance key
in his game-changing book tournament
poker for advanced players in it he
gives an example of folding king of
spades and Queen of Hearts to an early
position razor but raising with that
same hand if you were the first one to
act in the pot now the range of this gap
will be affected based upon how tight or
loose your opponent's play but in poker
tournaments the idea here is that you
avoid confrontations with players who
shall strength from early position while
seeking opportunities to put pressure on
players behind you who don't want to
waste chips so here's a typical hand
that many new players misc play not
understanding the gap concept you are in
middle position with ace Jack offsuit
and you are facing a raise from an early
position player while in this spot ace
Jack offsuit can get you in a lot of
trouble firstly a raise from early
position could very well mean you are
getting involved in a dominated
situation secondly half the table still
has to act behind you now with very good
pots to get involved in this hand with a
wide range of hole cards perhaps even
rear A's you also the chances are the
flop is going to completely miss your
hand and you won't really know where you
are in the hand even if all players misc
as you can see to call here is
potentially asking for a series of
difficult even costly decisions now does
this mean you should never play ace Jack
offsuit when there is a raise in front
of you well no of course not even though
most of the time it probably is a fold
it really all depends on your opponent's
starting hand ring
the more hands he plays the wider his
range in fact if he plays let's say
fifty percent of the hands dealt to him
then there really is no gap at all with
your ace Jack offsuit and I would
strongly consider a rear ace here to
isolate a player who you are very likely
ahead of preflop with a move like this
you can take control of the hand by
eliminating loose competitors and having
position on the original raiser now if
he is a tight player and preflop raises
very little your ace Jack offsuit can be
up against hands like these days King
ace Queen pocket kings pocket aces
queens or Jack's which will more than
likely be disastrous for you this is a
very narrow gap for you in fact the best
you can hope for against a player like
this is if he has an under pair but that
may still mean difficult post flop
decisions for you in the hand so even
though the gap concept dictates you need
a better hand to call the Rays with then
you need to raise with the real
determination for your decision may very
well be the range of hands you can put
your opponent on the wider his range the
smaller gap you have to deal with I hope
that helps you with understanding the
gap concept a little better for your
tournament play thanks for watching you
can always see more poker video
tutorials and the Poulter school at
paddy power poker calm